The Impact of Image Classification Models and Image Quality on the Classification of mathematical equations.
Introduction
Research Question

Machine learning has been gaining popularity in recent years, permeating many aspects of our daily lives, both commercially and in research. This project will continue to use this technology, bringing it into the world of education. Image classification methods such as CNN and VGG-16 will be used to identify the kinds of mathematical formulas based on the images provided by the user.
The motivation for this project stems from fairly simple but widespread problems that I, as a math tutor with ten years of experience in the field, encounter all the time.It can be difficult to recognize and categorize mathematical formulas and equations that can make the process of creating learning materials, textbooks, and problems easier for students. This can reduce labor costs for teachers and textbook authors.
Also, in the context of distance learning, which has become especially relevant in light of events related to the pandemic, the use of automatic classification of mathematical formulas can facilitate the learning process, can help students in solving problems, after recognizing a formula or type of equation, providing information about the formula, its application and examples of tasks with solutions, which will help the student use them correctly and solve tasks without problems, thus helping students not to lose motivation to study mathematics, learn faster and at a high level.
In doing so, we can give a very general overview of the project phases.Although many datasets with mathematical formulas are available in this topic area, such studies are largely unexplored. This means that our first task will be to create a dataset consisting of labeled images of numbers and mathematical symbols. The dataset has been collected by me over many years of teaching, but the exact amount will depend on the limitations of the computing power we have. After that, we'll apply the standard image processing steps: resizing, etc., and then the real work can begin. We will experiment with model architecture, image quality, and preprocessing methods to evaluate what conditions lead to an accurate, unbiased, and robust classifier (that is, it can accept an array of image qualities with minimal impact on performance). While incorporating all of these variables into this project may seem like an overwhelming amount of work, it should be easier than it sounds and will yield a significant return on research results.
Taking this into account, the project name will be as follows:
"The Impact of Image Classification Models and Image Quality on the Classification of equations."
